.\" Man page for ei
.\" Contact luizg.devlx@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH EI 1 "October 2025" "easyinstaller 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ei \- universal installation manager for Linux
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ei
[\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIARGS\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBeasyinstaller (ei)\fR is a command-line tool that simplifies package management
across different Linux package managers like APT, Flatpak, and Snap.
It provides a unified interface to add, remove, list, and manage packages
from a single entry point.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B add
\fI<package_name>...\fR
Search for and install one or more packages from APT, Flatpak, and Snap.
If an exact match is found, it is installed automatically;
otherwise, an interactive selection menu is presented.

.TP
.B rm
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fI<package_name>...\fR
Find and remove an installed package by its exact name.
.RS
.TP
.B -y , --yes
Automatically answer "yes" to confirmation prompts.
.TP
.B --purge
For APT packages, use "purge" to remove configuration files as well.
.RE

.TP
.B list
[\fImanager...\fR]
List all installed packages, grouped by manager.
Can be filtered by providing one or more manager names
(e.g. \fBei list apt snap\fR).

.TP
.B export
\fIsubcommand\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Export installed software information to JSON. Subcommands:
.RS
.TP
.B full
Include system metadata and every installed package (executed by default when no subcommand is supplied).
.TP
.B apps
Export only user-facing applications, filtering packages that belong to the base distribution.
.TP
.B favorites
Export the list maintained via \fBei favorites\fR.
.TP
.B -m , --manager \fI<manager>\fR
Limit the export to specific managers (apt, flatpak, snap).
.TP
.B -o , --output \fI<file_path>\fR
Custom path for the generated JSON file. Defaults to a timestamped file in \fI~/.local/share/easyinstaller/exports/\fR.
.RE

.TP
.B favorites
Manage favourite applications. Without arguments an interactive picker is opened (requires a TTY). Subcommands:
.RS
.TP
.B list
Show saved favourites grouped by manager.
.TP
.B clear
Remove all favourites (use \fB-y\fR to skip the confirmation).
.RE

.TP
.B config
Show and update EasyInstaller configuration.
.RS
.TP
.B get \fI<key>\fR
Print the current value for a configuration key.
.TP
.B set \fI<key>\fR \fI<value>\fR
Persist a new value for the given key.
.TP
.B language [\fIcode\fR]
Select the interface language interactively or set it directly (e.g. \fBen_US\fR, \fBpt_BR\fR).
.RE

.TP
.B import
\fI<file_path>\fR
Install packages from a previously exported JSON file.

.TP
.B hist
Display the history of packages installed and removed by easyinstaller,
sorted by most recent.

.TP
.B uninstall
Uninstall the easyinstaller (ei) application itself from the system.
Requires that \fBei\fR was installed using the official \fBinstall.sh\fR script.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B ei add htop tree
Search for and install htop and tree.

.TP
.B ei rm htop -y
Remove htop without asking for confirmation.

.TP
.B ei export -o my-setup.json apt
Export only APT packages to a file named \fBmy-setup.json\fR.

.TP
.B ei export apps -m apt
Export only user-facing APT applications.

.TP
.B ei export favorites -o fav.json
Export the current favourites to \fBfav.json\fR.

.TP
.B ei list
List all packages installed via APT, Flatpak, and Snap.

.TP
.B ei favorites
Open the interactive selector and choose the applications to mark as favourites.

.TP
.B ei config language
Set the interface language interactively.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/easyinstaller/config.json
User-specific configuration file defining default paths for logs, exports, and history.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/easyinstaller/history.jsonl
History log file.
.TP
.I ~/.config/easyinstaller/favorites.json
List of favourite applications maintained via \fBei favorites\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
.B GitHub:
.UR https://github.com/ketteiGustavo/easyinstaller
.UE
.SH AUTHOR
Luiz Gustavo <luizg.devlx@gmail.com>
